Downloaded from
YTS.MX
BASED ON A TRUE STORY
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
Thank you.
There is a driving force
that's greater than human willpower
which allows us to perform colossal tasks
that are almost beyond human ability.
And that great force is neither physical.
tangible. nor material.
it lies within the very spirit
of every human being.
That great force that inspires us
to keep moving forward...
is called faith.
When we Franciscans came to this land.
we ventured deeper inland
than swords ever could.
And our only weapon was a crucifix
together with words of life
and consolation.
The natives became very fond
of our Blessed Mother's images.
Praise and bless my Lord
and thank Him. brothers.
but always thank and follow Him
with great humility.
With joy.
Thank and serve Him. but serve Him
with great humility for Sister Water.
May the Lord assist you
by the grace of the Holy Spirit
so that. freed of your sins...
Why?
My God. Why?
Something caught my eye from afar.
Hidden among the copious mesquite trees
in the distance.
sprawling in the age-old darkness.
laid the village of Mezquititlán.
Do you like her?
Something here inside tells me
that you will take special care
of our Mother.
MEXICO CITY
I don't know what to do
because he won't pay me.
He's a tightfisted one.
The problem is
that I already delivered the order.
That's right.
You already delivered the order.
Carmen. What are you doing this weekend?
I'm visiting my parents in Tultepec.
I haven't seen them in ages.
Carmen. how I wish we could go back
to where we grew up. remember?
I remember. I'd like that too.
But sometimes we just can't.
Maybe when Pancho gets a raise.
Move it. ladies.
We need to meet our production goal.
Don't worry. I've even finished
this weekend's quota.
Good job.
If not. I couldn't give you
those days off for your trip.
I'll work two extra hours
to meet my quota.
What about you?
You're always busy chatting.
Who. me? I'm doing a great job as usual.
Get back to work.
-Pancho. the boss needs you.
-Okay.
I gave them ten years of my life.
How can they do this to me?
Pancho. you're always late.
you show up drunk.
you never meet your deadlines.
I can't help you like that.
Please understand. I have a family.
My wife and I both work.
But we barely make enough for expenses.
Give me another chance.
I can't. Pancho. Orders from above.
Then transfer me. boss. please.
Here's your severance pay. Pancho.
I'm sorry.
Pancho.
Quit that stuff.
Be strong.
This one.
-How much is this dress. Miss?
-4.500.
But we have a layaway plan.
-Thank you. You're very kind.
-You're welcome.
Is this the one you like?
You'll look gorgeous in this dress. Gaby.
Did you guys take everything up?
I did.
-Gaby. did you take everything up?
-Can we buy another one?
Yes. Later.
Hurry up. Carmen!
Coming!
TEYAHUALCO. TULTEPEC. STATE OF MEXICO
-Grandma!
-Honey!
I'm so glad to see you. honey!
-Go ahead.
-Darling!
You're a sight for sore eyes.
my beautiful girl!
-Hi.
-Mother-in-law.
-Why haven't you come to see us?
-Work.
-What's up. Pancho?
-Gerónimo.
-Come in.
-Thank you.
It's a miracle you came to see us.
We missed you guys.
We missed you too.
Your job prevents you from coming.
Right. honey?
But it's great you could make it today.
-Please have a seat.
-Yes.
And how's my Gaby?
Gaby. your grandma's talking to you.
I'm fine. Grandma.
She's so tall. isn't she?
And you're beautiful. honey.
-You have a boyfriend. right?
-Mom. she's just a kid.
I think you have a boyfriend.
Right. honey?
No. my parents still won't let me.
We'll see when she's 15.
That's pretty soon.
in just five months.
-You're throwing her a party. right?
-We're on it. ma'am.
Carmen's working overtime
to help pay for it.
Don't forget to invite us.
You've forgotten all about us.
We certainly will. ma'am.
How much have you saved?
We've only got 20.000 pesos.
We've had a few issues.
Let me see your drawings. Gaby.
I have some savings. it's not much.
but I'd like to chip in
for my Gaby's birthday.
-That won't be necessary.
-We'd appreciate it if you could.
I'd love to.
Honey. please. You have to accept it.
-No. that's really not necessary.
-Sure it is. honey.
Your dad and I will check our savings.
We'll love to help you out.
Right. honey?
We'll definitely be there
for the family. honey.
And yes. it is necessary. ma'am.
Thank you.
It is not. Pancho. I'm telling you.
Don't do this to me in front of my folks.
What's wrong with accepting
your parents' help?
We can pay for Gabriela's party.
We'll save the money.
Any kind of help is welcome
in these circumstances.
We'd have the money
if you didn't spend it on liquor.
You need to accept your parents' help
because I was just fired.
You'd better be kidding. Francisco.
I'll find another job.
Meanwhile. accept your parents' help.
I will not. Get a job.
Even unemployed and broke
you've always got your booze.
Why don't you guys relax?
Relax and enjoy your dessert.
And talk to us.
It's okay. Pancho.
Thank you.
So. tell me. How have you been?
How's it going?
Mom.
Gaby!
VICEROYALTY OF NEW SPAIN - 1615
How was your trip. sir?
Very pleasant indeed.
Although some native bandits
tried to steal our horses.
But they were just hungry.
We gave them food and water.
and they ended up protecting us
the rest of the way.
I don't understand.
Why are the natives in these lands
so neglected?
I know you want to continue
our viceroy's project. don't you. sir?
And we have made a huge effort
to treat our natives
the best we can.
It's just that...
they're so many
we can't look after all of them. but...
we're doing our best.
Your employees
look more like slaves to me.
I hope your Excellency likes
what we've prepared for you.
And I hope it's not a huge feast
like the last time.
At this rate. I'll be as fat as your wife.
Where is she?
She's in Spain taking care of business.
I wanted to say hello to her.
Let's see what you've got for me.
Go right ahead. sir.
Ladies and gentlemen.
Pay attention. this festival
promises to be most exciting.
because after watching our performance
your viceroy
will want to jump off his box seat.
To honor the arrival
of your beloved viceroy.
we've organized a humble celebration.
So humble it will last all night long!
I'd also like to take this opportunity
to thank your beloved host.
Squire Buenaventura De La Garza.
And to keep you awake...
we begin with acts that defy all logic.
And men who are brave enough
to face death.
and achieve the feat
known as the final leap.
will receive from your viceroy's emissary
one hundred coins!
Here is your first participant.
María.
Think about it.
I'll be expecting your reply
before I sail for Spain.
I know you don't want to go back. and...
I respect your decision.
but I cannot stay here.
My home is in Spain.
Don't worry. Father.
I understand perfectly well.
I will be alright.
And remember to write
when you arrive in Spain.
I love you.
Don't you ever forget it.
I need you to come with us.
Come on!
I guess you're next.
My famous friend.
I like seeing you alive.
Same here. I thought you were dead.
I thought you gave up games
that defy Lady Luck.
I did give them up.
But they won't give me up.
Why don't we make this
a little more exciting?
Sure. What are you up to?
I bet you 100 coins
that you won't dare be next.
One hundred coins!
That's very brave of you.
I bet you only ten
that you won't dare to try it after me.
-Well?
-It's a deal.
Yes!
Damn!
It's my turn.
So?
Does any other spectator
dare to face death?
We have our next participant!
How long?
Too long.
Go on!
I need my money.
I also heard you're traveling
to Veracruz tomorrow.
-Weren't you going to tell me?
-I was going to.
Julio. Julio!
I won't fall for your tricks this time.
I know you too well.
I swear it wasn't my fault this time.
I promise to pay you everything I owe you.
You've run out of luck.
You can't pay me. can you?
You worked for me for many years.
I gave you some good land.
I appreciate that.
But as I always told you:
"Those who don't use their land
end up losing."
My daughter? Not my daughter!
Don't hurt her. please! I beg you!
Bring me that one.
It's okay. Justino.
Luck is always on our side.
Let's do this. handsome.
A promise is a promise.
We have a winner!
A hundred coins makes life easy for you.
Justino will feast like a king.
So. what are you waiting for?
The horse won't saddle itself.
Some other day.
No.
What a negative attitude.
I'll be right back.
Excuse me. You look familiar.
You look familiar.
You say that to all women.
Tell me something.
How many fell for your tricks?
It worked for more than half the women
I've tried it with.
But...
I mean it this time.
You look familiar.
Don't you remember me?
From Veracruz?
Are you...
that tightrope walker kid?
Who made a few coins on the jetty
by walking on a rope?
-You're nothing like him.
-Really?
That was ages ago.
That's true.
If only coins were as durable as scars.
I'd be different.
How is your father?
He's here today.
Although
he doesn't seem to like it here.
Do you like it here?
-I'm better off here than in Spain.
-Good.
I have no complaints.
And you? Do you like the New World?
Yes.
Very much.
I have no complaints either.
I have been very blessed here
and going back to Spain would be madness
because I have no friends
or family over there.
But I have my horse. Justino.
my good luck and a lousy map
that always makes me lose my way.
-It's funny.
-What?
For someone who brags about his good luck
to get lost so much.
That doesn't say much
about your good luck. does it?
Well...
I guess you're right.
But I've always believed
it all depends
on where you end up getting lost.
Don't you agree?
Speaking about good luck.
would you like to...
Your father needs you. Come with us.
Sometimes the pain isn't enough. right?
Come on.
I have a question for you.
Go ahead.
Have you worked for that squire?
Yes. Why?
What's that woman to him?
I don't know.
All I know is. her father owes the squire
some money.
Thanks.
Excuse me.
-I need to speak with you.
-Tell me. What brings you here?
Business.
A poor devil like you?
What can you possibly offer me?
I offer you 150 coins for that man's debt.
That man's debt has been paid.
So. get out of my sight.
You won't see me again.
Making friends?
I need a favor.
No. man.
I'm not going back to jail
because of you.
Well.
if you made some friends there.
you're welcome.
You still haven't convinced me.
I'll convince you on the road.
I'll be with Buenaventura.
if you fall asleep again.
I'll have your heads.
It's here.
What are you doing?
-In Andalusia you need to watch...
-We need to watch our backs.
Okay.
You should too. if you're smart.
Stay with the horses. I'll be right back.
Hey.
I'm the one that knows the estate.
And I'm stealthier than you.
And I know where he has the gold.
I'm more experienced.
Let's do this.
-I bet you ten coins.
-No way.
I've had enough dares for today.
Go by yourself.
Old age is getting to you.
So. now you steal women?
I didn't see that coming.
I stole nothing. I borrowed her
and plan to return her.
This one never returns what he borrows.
He means it's been a huge feat.
Okay. Fine.
Why don't we just go?
You can chat on the way.
Right?
Whoa! Whoa!
My friend. I bid you farewell.
It's been a pleasure to help you.
Okay. Diego.
Thanks for your help.
I hope to see you soon.
Not that soon. I hope.
Miss. take good care of him.
Godspeed to both of you.
Same to you.
Giddy up!
So. my old friend.
Now that you're free.
where will you go with your father?
No.
I'll write my father
telling him not to worry about me.
I think I've found my destiny here.
I think so too.
So. where do you want to go. Miss?
Let's go wherever fate takes us.
You'll see just how amazing fate can be.
I think your daughter fainted
simply because she's weak.
Probably due to malnutrition.
She's fine for now. hypothetically.
but she needs to be hospitalized
for one or two days
until she's stable. okay?
Is there something I can do to help?
My son is very ill.
And it's only getting worse.
I'm so sorry. ma'am.
What's your son's name?
Pedrito is my son's name.
You wouldn't believe
what he's been through since he was three.
Watching him struggle with all of this...
gives me the strength to keep going
stronger than ever.
I'm here
because my granddaughter
collapsed in my living room.
Her nose was bleeding.
And I'm very concerned.
Kids. Our little ones.
They're the ones who make us so strong.
That's my daughter.
I'll see what's going on. ma'am.
This is your fault.
If you were at home some more
the kid would be fine
and none of this would be happening.
So now it's my fault?
You say it's all my fault?
At least I've got a job.
You know things are tough.
And about the money.
don't worry. there's more than enough.
Don't lie to me. Pancho. I know you.
You just loaf around all day.
How would you know?
You're never at home.
-Just find a job or else...
-Or else what?
I'll move in with my folks.
You have a kid. Pancho.
You're still acting as a child.
-Look. just...
-Just what?
Don't you dare be disrespectful to me.
I have to go to work.
Will you do everything the nurses say?
Yes. Mom. I love you.
-I love you too.
-Bye. Mom.
-You heard my mom. right?
-No.
Don't worry. We hear everything here.
What are you drawing?
My quinceañera party dress. Take a look.
-I like the design.
-I have other designs.
-You shouldn't be here.
-Why not?
Look at you. You don't look sick.
No offense meant.
but you might join the club soon.
I just got here.
How long have you been here?
Not long. but don't worry.
You get accustomed to everything
except the food.
What do you suggest?
Beans and eggs. Their specialty.
I mean being in hospitals.
How can you stand it?
If it helps any.
imagine you're somewhere else.
Wherever you want to be.
That works sometimes.
-Do you believe in God?
-The answer is obvious.
Me too. but in a different way.
What do you mean?
That sometimes God sends us to this world
to test us
and if we pass the test.
he sends another and another.
And so forth. in order to heal us.
Sure. to make us stronger.
You sound like my grandpa.
Raúl. Pour me one. please.
-Want a tab?
-Yes.
How are you doing. buddy?
Okay.
Hanging in there.
But you'll have one with me. right?
I don't want to drink too much.
One is like none.
What? Does your wife beat you up?
-Cheers.
I'd like to stay with you. but...
-I can't.
-Why not?
I have to work.
And...
I'd like to stay here with you. but...
Don't worry. You'll be fine.
You'll see.
we'll be able to go to the beach.
You'll be just fine.
We'll be very happy there.
You can go running.
and then...
Grandma.
My Gaby is awake!
How are you feeling. baby?
-Better than yesterday.
-That's great. honey.
That's Our Lady of San Juan.
She has interceded for thousands of people
and healed many others.
But you need to pray to her
with a lot of faith.
And you'll see how she'll help you too.
Let's pray to her. okay?
In the name of the Father. and of the Son.
and of the Holy Ghost. amen.
Our Father who art in Heaven
hallowed be Thy name.
Yes?
-Is the manager in?
-What do you need him for?
-To hand him my job application.
-I'll take care of it.
Thanks.
-How's it going. Mom?
-Everything's fine. honey.
Hi. Gaby.
-How are you?
-I'm okay. Mom.
What are you doing?
Is this us?
Yes. next to the Blessed Virgin.
I'll take it with me
when it's done. honey.
Mom.
-Where did you get this picture?
-A nurse found it on the floor.
Mom. do you like the altar Grandpa made?
Yes. Gaby. it's very nice.
The Blessed Virgin will protect you.
Mom. Hasn't Pancho come back?
TEYAHUALCO CLINIC
What happened?
It's not just malnutrition. apparently.
They're running some more tests.
I had to stay in the hospital all alone.
Calm down.
Wait and see what the doctors say.
What about Pancho?
He never listens to me.
Look.
It's a workshop the church organizes.
Give it to him.
Ramón was here a while ago.
He didn't believe
you were in the restroom.
This can't be happening.
It's one thing after another.
Aren't you ladies talking too much?
Looks like somebody's alarm clock
didn't work.
Ramón. Carmen's kid is in hospital
with a serious condition.
I hope she gets better soon.
but I also hope
it's the last time you're late.
You're making it very hard for me.
I know your kid is ill.
but the supervisors are pressuring me.
I told them you're one of our best. but...
It won't happen again. I'm sorry. Ramón.
I hope so. Carmen.
-Ceci.
-Yes?
Can you take me to the hospital
after work?
Sure. I'll see how Gabrielita's doing.
And the old lady says.
"No. he's too ugly and thick-lipped."
I'm here.
-Hi.
Hi.
-Mom.
-Hi. honey.
-Hi. Gaby.
How are you feeling?
Fine. Mom.
Grandpa Gerónimo came to see me.
I glad to hear you're feeling better.
You guys can go home. Dad.
Thanks for helping with Gaby.
Your dad and I need to speak with you.
-Is it urgent. Mom?
-Let's go outside. honey.
Your dad. Mariela and I
are going on a pilgrimage
to Our Lady of San Juan de Los Lagos.
Mom. you scared me. But why now?
I don't know where Pancho is.
I need your support.
Honey. we're always there for you.
but this time.
we want to go and pray for Gaby
and our family.
Carmen. we need to have a lot of faith
right now.
I know the Blessed Virgin
will do a miracle for our Gaby.
We need to be together
more than ever now.
Pancho never showed up.
I'm getting tired of that man.
if he keeps this up...
Calm down. honey. please.
Everything will be just fine.
I understand.
Go if you have to.
If you think that can help Gabriela.
go right ahead.
It's just a few days
and everything will be okay.
We will pray for our Gaby.
Meanwhile you and Pancho
take good care of her. Okay. honey?
Yes. Mom. Go pray for our family.
We'll say goodbye to Gaby. Okay. honey?
-I love you very much. honey.
-I love you too.
It's beautiful. honey!
This is lovely. honey.
Honey.
We're going to San Juan de los Lagos
for a few days
to pray to the Blessed Virgin for you.
We'll be back soon.
Just remember.
be good and do whatever the doctors say.
Bring me something from San Juan.
-Of course. honey.
-Of course.
-We love you very much.
-I love you too.
My princess.
What's up. Raúl?
I came to pay my tab.
Sure.
One for the road. José? We'll miss you.
I don't think so.
We can see each other at Mass.
Bartender.
Pour me another.
To toast to this unfair life.
I'm losing the best thing I have.
It's the first time
I hear you talk like that.
We all know
what your family is going through.
What do you know how I feel?
It's unbearable pain.
Maybe I don't know
what you're going through. but...
I know this is no place
to find a solution.
Who are you to judge me?
You have your family.
Why aren't you with them?
I know that.
But sometimes there's nothing you can do.
Raúl.
Give him the free tequila shot instead.
He needs it more than me.
Maybe it's his last drink.
Leave me alone.
He doesn't mean any harm.
His son just died.
He's having a hard time.
Tell Brandon to help him.
He helped a lot of people in his workshop.
I'll tell him.
Thanks. Ceci. What would I do without you?
You're welcome. I'm always there for you.
Hi. princess.
-Where were you?
-Job hunting.
-Pancho. we need to talk.
-But I haven't found anything.
-I don't want you lacking anything.
-Pancho.
I'll be right back.
Give me Gaby's picture
you took from my wallet.
What picture?
I looked for you all day long.
Where were you?
Carmen. I've been looking for work
all day.
How do I know that?
You know how many factories
I went to today?
I'm trying to believe you. Pancho.
But I can't.
You're right.
I just ask one thing of you. Trust me.
And regarding Gaby's expenses.
don't worry about them.
The doctors don't know
what's wrong with her.
They're running more tests.
Your daughter needs you.
Do not let her down.
-Good morning. everyone.
-Good morning.
Welcome to this new pilgrimage.
I need you to know this is no field day.
It's a very long day
to our Lady of San Juan's shrine.
We'll thank her for her benevolence
and ask her to be at our side
in our times of need.
Remember that each challenge
is a test from God.
This will make us very strong
for our trip
and whatever we have to deal with.
The rest is up to us.
All that matters
is getting there together.
Remember that fear and faith
are incompatible.
You're only scared if you lack faith.
So the last to get there buys the tamales.
Yes.
Get bottled water. check your bicycles.
and see you in ten minutes.
Let's go.
Hurrah for our Lady of San Juan!
Hurrah!
Who brought it for you?
-My granddad.
-How sweet of him.
My parents did that pilgrimage
for many years.
They say it's an experience...
I can't even describe it.
It's so beautiful.
I've never been on a pilgrimage.
Because of my job.
But I'd love to be there.
-Good morning. Rosalba.
-Good morning.
Gaby. what do you want me
to tell the folks outside?
What folks?
Your friends miss you.
They came to see how you're doing.
Carmen. come with me.
Don't you understand?
My kid is hospitalized.
I can't even afford her medication.
I need my job.
I need your signature.
What's wrong?
Oh no!
Good morning. sir.
-Can I help you?
-The manager?
I'm the owner. How can I help you?
I'm looking for work.
Are there any positions available?
We're not hiring at the moment.
But you can give your application
to the secretary
and we'll let you know when we're hiring.
I'll do anything.
Okay. guys.
We have a more precise diagnosis.
From the tests we ran on Gabriela.
she has a rare condition.
We think your daughter's condition
is a rare mutation of her heart valves.
The right side is the most affected.
It pumps blood to the lungs.
so insufficient oxygen
is being pumped to the blood.
We don't know for sure
how she'll respond to treatment.
since there's no known cure
for the disease.
Carmen. Are you listening?
Carmen.
I need to know if you agree
to transferring her to Mexico City
for better medical attention
and a more precise diagnosis.
We're not in a good situation
at the moment. Doctor.
So that's difficult for now.
I see.
If it's about money.
I suggest you ask a relative for help.
or get a bank to finance it.
CHRIST INVITES YOU TO IMPROVE YOUR LIFE
PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP
I'm fine.
Pass me a bottle of water.
please. my child.
Sure.
-Thank you.
-Sure.
Thanks.
Are you okay. Mom? Where does it hurt?
My feet and my legs.
But I'll be fine after I get some rest.
Everything okay?
Yes. son. We're a little tired.
but happy to see our blessed Virgin.
-First time?
-Is it that obvious?
That's normal. Don't worry.
I can get you some transportation
if you like.
Thanks. son. a few minutes rest
and we'll be fine. thank you.
Let me know what you need.
-How kind of you.
-Thanks.
How are you feeling?
Hi. sis.
What? When?
What is it. honey?
Don't worry. honey.
We need to have a lot of faith.
The Virgin Mary will heal Gaby.
You'll see.
Sorry to intrude.
but I couldn't help hearing what you said.
Is it a sick relative?
Yes. my niece is getting worse.
I lost my brother five years ago.
He died of cancer.
Since then. I've done the pilgrimage
to thank God and the Virgin Mary
for letting my brother live longer
than what the doctors predicted.
Thank them for letting me speak with him.
laugh with him and say goodbye.
This is how I say thank you.
It's my fourth pilgrimage.
You guys are going to pray for her.
Aren't you?
With all our hearts. son.
My husband and I are very devoted
to Our Lady of San Juan.
Have you heard of her first miracle?
No.
Why don't I tell you on the way?
-Sure.
-Let's do that. Let's go. guys!
It happened precisely
in the town we're going to.
San Juan de los Lagos.
In the year 1623
it was called
San Juan Bautista de Mezquititlán.
There was a very humble shrine
in the village.
Ana Lucía and Pedro Andrés took care of it
and of Our Lady of San Juan.
Look at you.
My beloved princess.
What are you doing here on the altar?
Yesterday you were in the sacristy.
Explain that to me.
Back to your niche you go.
I'm putting you back in here.
You'll be just fine here.
Pedro Andrés!
I found our beloved princess
here on the altar again.
Did you take her out?
Only we can go in there.
Ana Lucía and Pedro Andrés were
Our Lady of San Juan's custodians.
What was the circus people's family like?
That's next.
But now I'm going to disappoint you.
We'll get to our base. eat and continue.
Is that okay?
-Okay.
-This way. This way. guys.
-Hi. Raúl.
-Hi.
Have you seen the guy
I argued with the other day?
I haven't seen him in a while.
-Do you know where I can find him?
-No.
-I came to pay my tab.
-Thanks.
This one is on the house.
No.
Thanks.
How is everyone doing?
-Just fine. son.
-Good. Have you eaten and rested?
-We're fine.
-Yes. Thank you.
I wanted to thank you
for all your support.
There's nothing to thank me for.
Just let me know what you need.
Thanks. son. I remembered our chat
about the Virgin Mary's custodians.
What did they have to do
with the first miracle?
They had a lot to do with it.
I came to tell you the story.
Precisely in that year. 1623.
a family of acrobats from San Luis Potosí
consisting of the parents
and two daughters
were traveling to Guadalajara
and decided to stop over
at San Juan Bautista de Mezquititlán.
-Good morning.
-Can I help you?
Our family is traveling
from very distant lands.
It's been a very rough trip.
We're very tired. hungry and thirsty.
We very humbly request
your hospitality.
We have two girls.
We're just going through
on our way to Guadalajara.
Okay. you can stay.
But only three days.
-That will do.
-Outside our village.
Thank you very much.
So you met in Veracruz?
Yes. a long time ago.
Wonderful.
Mrs. Lucía.
Why doesn't your husband say anything?
Is he afraid of strangers?
Watch your mouth!
I won't lie to you.
He is afraid of strangers.
Sorry for asking such a rude question.
Mrs. Lucía.
Don't worry about it.
What do you want to be
when you grow up. little girl?
I'm sure she'll be a great writer.
She loves it when I read stories to her.
-I want to be like Dad.
-Really? Like your dad?
And why?
Because he's the strongest.
He killed a wolf all by himself.
Dear God! He killed a wolf?
Did he kill the wolf
for causing your scars?
No. this scar is from when my dad
taught me the death-defying walk.
The death-defying walk?
Sadly. the elder one
took more after her dad.
And that scares me.
-But your husband seems to be a good man.
-That he is.
But sometimes he ignores the risks.
I worry that he might risk his life
or someone else.
Dinner is delicious. Mrs. Lucía.
We would be very pleased
to pay for your hospitality.
There's no need to pay us.
Thank you so much. Mrs. Ana Lucía.
-May God reward you.
-I insist.
There must be something we can do.
Well. my husband has a hard time
working the fields
and your husband is big and strong.
He could work the fields with him
while you're here.
Excellent idea.
And I would love to help you out
with your daily chores.
but I need to practice for a...
A show we're doing in Guadalajara.
This is no time for quackery. dear.
What show?
-You'll love it. ma'am. I promise.
-Not this time. please.
If we may. and with all due respect.
we'd love to perform for you. right. dear?
But of course.
To thank you for your hospitality.
We'd appreciate that.
But for now we need to rest.
Good night.
-Good night.
-Good night. baby girl.
Honey. why don't you go to bed
with your sister?
-I'm not sleepy. Mom.
-It's your bedtime. honey. It's late.
Little mermaid. like your mom says.
it's bedtime.
Yes. Daddy.
You thought I wouldn't notice?
You use your rehearsals as an excuse
to avoid helping Pedro Andrés.
Don't forget what our goal is now.
Settling down
and making a living some other way.
You're a father. for God's sake.
I know this is our livelihood.
but it's time you got accustomed
to doing something else.
You're helping Pedro Andrés. period.
Sure.
Fine. woman.
I'll help Pedro Andrés tomorrow morning.
But after I work out and warm up.
and that's okay.
Go to bed then.
Tomorrow is a long day for you.
Welcome. everyone.
In appreciation of your hospitality
we have a great show for you.
I hope you enjoy it.
-Want to give it a try?
-But Dad. with daggers below?
I won't say no if that's what you want.
I know you can do it.
You're my daughter and I trust you.
But Dad. if Mom sees me.
she'll be mad at us.
It's okay. honey.
Your mom can overdo it sometimes.
She'll be so happy
to see how good you are at it.
She'll love it.
-Okay.
Listen up. people!
I give you my daughter's very first act!
And we're doing it
with the greatest feat of all.
The death-defying walk!
Pay attention!
What's wrong with you?
How can you allow such a scene?
-What's wrong?
-Get your daughter down here now!
I forgot to tell you
your daughter's ready to join my show.
It's okay. she'll be fine.
Tell her to get off of there now!
I need a trained companion.
You used to help me.
And I still do. I'm here.
But now they're what matters most.
You're here?
Like when you let me do my act alone
to look after the girls?
I need a trained companion like her.
And now that I have her.
you'd take her away?
My daughter
doesn't deserve
to be part of your tacky shows.
You're mistaken. woman.
And I'll prove it to you.
Calm down. woman. It's okay.
Honey. get down here right now.
Please listen to me!
Go. honey. go.
Go. go. go.
Come on. you can do it.
What happened?
That's exactly what happened.
Excuse me. son. but...
I can't help remembering my granddaughter.
Thanks. son.
The nightmare of Gaby
closing her eyes forever
torments me.
What if we can't pay the hospital?
Have some tea.
What if Pancho has a relapse?
I understand your doubts.
but you cannot lose your faith.
You need to hang in there
and be as strong as Gaby.
I'd like to be stronger.
You've always been strong
since the day we met.
You must be strong. Promise me you will.
Promise me on our friendship.
Thank you. Ceci.
Good morning. princess.
Why?
You deserve it.
You're doing well?
I work hard.
You hardly drink now. right?
What makes you say that?
Don't worry. I won't tell Mom.
-Can I say something?
-Anything you want.
I'm scared.
How are you feeling. Gaby?
You don't feel any pain?
-Ceci. can you stay with Gaby for a while?
-Sure. I'll look after her.
I'll be right back.
I need to speak with your dad.
-How are you. honey?
-HI.
That's beautiful!
Tell me you didn't use our savings
to buy those gifts.
No. it's money I earned.
You just found a job.
Tell me you didn't spend that money.
What if I did?
Don't you dare. Pancho.
Why did you do that?
She already loves you
no matter what you do.
What if it's not about that?
What do you mean?
What if she leaves us today?
How can you say that. Francisco?
-What if she doesn't make it to 15?
-The party isn't important.
What if any day now
she's not with us anymore?
First we need to get the money
to take her to another clinic.
We don't have the money.
or a surgeon for her. Carmen!
-And you spent the money like a kid?
-I want her last days to be happy.
Here.
You might need it.
Take good care of Gaby.
Tell her I had to go.
CHRIST INVITES YOU TO IMPROVE YOUR LIFE
PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP
Okay. Let's begin.
I'm not here to judge you.
let alone to make you feel guilty.
I'm here to speak with you.
So. who'll be the first to share with us?
Okay.
Those of you we've already met...
know that I lost a son.
For the newcomers.
I'm José.
I work with numbers.
I think in numbers. I understand numbers.
But lately. before I fall asleep.
I just stare at the roof
haunted by all the times
I failed him as a dad.
All the days I wasn't with him...
are the same days I was sober.
I just wish...
he knew how much I regret being a bad dad.
We're here for you. José.
Thank you for sharing that with all of us.
Thank you.
Does anyone else wish to share something?
How about you?
Is there anything you'd like to share?
No.
No. some other time.
Come on. man.
I don't think you came here
just to sit there and listen to us.
Letting it out will make you feel better.
Trust me.
My name is Francisco.
You can call me Pancho.
I'm 39.
Married.
And I have a great daughter.
I used to be a barfly.
I used to toast so much.
And while I said "cheers"...
my kid was fighting for her life.
I have no money.
But I always find some to buy liquor.
I'm trying to improve
for my wife.
for my daughter...
and for myself.
Good job. Pancho.
You're a good man.
Always be like that.
Always.
Thank you.
Well done. Pancho.
-Thanks.
-Thanks. José. and all of you.
-Thank you.
-Thanks.
Forgive me. Mrs. Benita.
I couldn't continue the other day.
The most important part of the story
is missing.
I'm sorry too. son.
because your story
reminded me of my little girl.
I'll get a priest
to give her a Christian burial.
The nearest priest
is in the town of Xalostotitlán.
I'm taking Pedro Andrés
to make the arrangements.
Look at my daughter.
It looks like she's asleep.
Ma'am. with your permission.
I can place the Blessed Virgin
on your daughter's chest.
She's extremely miraculous.
Okay.
If our beloved princess would like to.
She has done so many miracles.
Ma'am. come quickly.
Come and take a look.
Look. The girl is breathing.
She's breathing.
Look at her little stomach.
The child is breathing.
She performed the miracle!
I'm going to tell the men.
I'll be right back.
Pedro Andrés! Sir! Come quickly!
I knew it. I knew it.
She did the miracle for us.
Our beloved princess
performed the miracle for us.
Most Holy Beloved Princess!
Are you okay. honey?
Do you feel any pain?
No. Mother.
Just a burning sensation in my chest.
-This is a real miracle.
-Yes.
From the parish of Xalostotitlán.
Signer. parish priest Diego de Herrera.
Year 1623.
Send it to Guadalajara at once.
What brings you here?
I knew it.
I always knew that God
has blessed this land.
I knew it. Thank you. Holy Father.
Thank you.
Do you trust this native?
I have a feeling it's true.
I'll check it out personally.
What if it's not true?
He's not the first native
to tell us a tale like that.
The question is.
what if it's true?
I've always trusted that God
has blessed all of us in this land.
and now I've confirmed it myself.
I thank some of the witnesses
here with us today
for their faith and support
of the events
that occurred in our community.
Captain Miguel López de Elizalde.
don Gerónimo de Arona.
and this great painter. Francisco Flores.
The family has made a special request.
We grant them permission
to take the image of our Blessed Mother
to Guadalajara to be restored.
These two guards will accompany you
to protect the image.
May God be with you.
You have my blessing.
We want to thank you for your hospitality.
for your kindness.
and above all. for your help.
We will always be grateful to you.
And we also appreciate
the honor you bestow upon us
by allowing us to take the image
of our Blessed Mother to be restored
because she granted us
the greatest of miracles.
a second chance to be a family.
THE ROYAL ROAD TO GUADALAJARA
We just need to eat
and I'll bring our things down.
Excuse me. sir.
Do you need to restore any statues?
Are you guys from around here?
Yes. we're restoring statues
in a chapel nearby.
Okay. young lady. Go with Mom.
I got lucky.
This is the statue of our Blessed Mother
which I ask you to handle
with love and devotion.
They'll go with you.
I'll pay you when the job is done.
Very well.
Dad. Mom. Someone's knocking the door.
I'm going to have to get up.
Dad! Daddy! Wake up!
What are you doing. young lady?
Where are the restorers?
They gave me the Virgin Mary and left.
Where are they?
Where did they go? I need to pay them.
It's okay. Dad. they are the angels
who protect the Virgin Mary.
Angels?
DE LA CORREA INN
Blessed Virgin.
Dear Virgin Mary.
Thank you for allowing me
to pray with you.
There are several representations
of our beloved Lady.
of Our Lady of San Juan.
It's very interesting that each pilgrim
has a different image of her.
This one is very important
for us sanjuanenses
because it's about an event
that marked our history.
Pope John Paul II
came to our town in 1990.
And over here
we have some audiovisual material.
San Juan de los Lagos.
a wonderful place.
"Do not be conquered by evil.
But overcome evil with good."
Romans 12:21.
Congratulations to our graduates.
Congratulations. Pancho.
I'm so proud of you. my friend.
Thank you. Brandon. Meet my wife Carmen.
-Its a pleasure to meet you.
-The pleasure is mine.
Pancho told us a lot about you.
Thank you for supporting Pancho
all the way. because his life
has changed so incredibly.
Thanks to you and the workshop.
No. thanks to Pancho's good will.
He told me your daughter is hospitalized
with a very rare condition?
I contacted a close friend of mine
who is a specialist
in cases like your daughter's
for him to treat her.
and he's very willing to help you.
-Excuse me.
-Sure.
Thank you. Brandon.
But we can't afford a specialist.
Don't worry about the money.
I spoke with Pedrosa.
my good friend. the specialist.
He's aware of your case.
and he's willing to help you.
But he needs to see you right away.
That was the hospital.
Go. I'll tell Pedrosa to meet you there.
-Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
You're very welcome.
And...
will she make it?
It's a complicated surgery.
but the sooner we do it. the better.
tomorrow if possible.
Can we have a moment. please?
Sure.
What if the surgery fails?
It's very risky.
but it's our only option.
Hello.
Carmen phoned.
Stand clear!
"Dear Father.
I know it's been many years
since I last wrote you.
But I want you to know
how kind life has been to me.
It's given me an amazing family.
You are the granddad
of two lovely princesses.
They're wonderful.
You'll meet them one day.
They took after Mom.
My life in the New World
has been a blessing.
My husband Santiago
is a little reckless.
but he's the most loyal and loving man
I've ever met.
There was a tragedy in our family
a few days ago.
but life has granted us another chance.
and I am forever grateful
to God and the Virgin Mary
for showering us
with blessings and well-being.
It's a totally new beginning
and I promise to live my life to the full.
If you ever decide
to return to the New World.
please do not hesitate to visit us.
Your family will welcome you
with our arms wide open.
God bless you. I love you. Father.
Your daughter."
Mom!
Dad!
Is it really you?
Yes. it's me. my child.
Why is all the pain gone?
Did you heal me?
I did more than that.
Your heart is now ready
to live a lot better.
Pedro!
-Why did you abandon him?
-I never did. Gabriela.
But why did you allow it?
Honey. people cross our paths
for a purpose.
And Pedrito has fulfilled his.
Gabriela. when I was born.
the doctors told my mom
I had three years to live.
I lived long enough to meet you.
But...
Now we need to rekindle your love. honey.
Are you willing to do that?
Come with us.
Who would've guessed. right?
So. buddy. What brings you here?
There are rumors all over New Spain
of a tightrope walker
who does some amazing feats
with his family.
And I only know one madman
who would do that.
So I'm here to confirm my suspicions.
You haven't changed much
in all these years.
I'm afraid you're mistaken. my friend.
The man you knew no longer exists.
God gave me a second chance.
I'm very pleased to hear that.
Tell me something.
How could that woman
become your wife?
I didn't think you'd do it.
It's been so long now.
She won me over. my friend.
-Excuse me.
-Yes?
Any news about my daughter.
Gabriela Hernández?
We haven't had any updates in a while.
Come with me.
I'll get the doctor.
Hi. Princess.
How are you feeling?
Fine. Mom.
but my chest feels a little hot.
You'll be fine in no time.
And we'll go home.
Good afternoon.
-Good afternoon.
I see you heard the good news.
A few moments ago.
Gabriela was considered clinically dead.
But against all odds
we managed to bring her back.
All that matters
is there's no brain damage
and your daughter
is totally out of harm's way.
Everything went well.
SIX MONTHS LATER
Coming with Dad?
That's it. Let's go.
Miss.
Hi.
-Diego!
-Long time no see.
How are you?
Who is this little girl?
He's your uncle Diego.
-He's your uncle.
-Hello. I'm your uncle.
-How are you. young lady?
-I'm fine.
-Have you heard your dad's stories?
-No.
As time goes by. and as the years go by.
generation after generation.
the faith never ends
and the miracles continue.
Entire caravans of pilgrims entreat you.
and thank you. Blessed Lady of San Juan.
Your story already spans
four centuries of miracles.
Subtitle translation by: Ricardo Espinoza